Basic information
=================

* [↰ back to the documentation contents](0.Index.md)
* [↰ back to the AzaThread overview](../../../../)


---


1. [Basic information about the thread](#1---basic-information-about-the-thread)
2. [Simplified thread creation with closures](#2---simplified-thread-creation-with-closures)
3. [Basic information about the thread pool](#3---basic-information-about-the-thread-pool)



#### 1 - Basic information about the thread

Instance of class `Thread` inheritor represents "thread". It's forkes parent process and allows parallel calculations in the two processes. Communication between processes is supported by a pair of sockets, using an effective "event loop" model.

Thread can also work in compatibility mode - with no real parallel, forks and "event loop". Just in case there no dependencies or for testing. To force the inclusion of this mode, set the property `Thread::$useForks` to `false`.

For work you need to override the method `process` - code in it will be called asynchronously.

```php
class ExampleThread extends Thread
{
	function process()
	{
		// Code executed asynchronously
	}
}
```

Arguments for the job can be obtained via the methods `getParam`, `getParams`. Arguments are passed as with a usual function when you call the method `run`. With the option `$argumentsMapping` you can enable the arguments mapping as in a usual function, but it slows down a bit and therefore is disabled by default.

```php
class ExampleThread extends Thread
{
	function process()
	{
		// First parameter
		echo $this->getParam(0); // 12
		// Second parameter
		echo $this->getParam(1); // 79
		// Array with all parameters
		$params = $this->getParams();
	}
}
$thread = new ExampleThread();
$thread->wait()->run(12, 79);
```

Results can be sent via usual `return` and obtained by using the method `getResult`:

```php
class ExampleThread extends Thread
{
	function process()
	{
		return 123;
	}
}
$thread = new ExampleThread();
echo $thread->wait()->run()->wait()->getResult(); // 123
```

`wait` method is used to synchronize in the child and the parent process - it runs the "event loop", in which data is transferred from the parent process to the child and vice versa.

You need to call method `wait` once after creating the instance of "thread" and before running the task. You can disable this behavior by enabling the option `$preforkWait` so waiting for initialization will happen automatically, **but more efficient not to do it**.

More information about the configuration options for the thread can be found in [the relevant part of the documentation](3.Options.md).

`getSuccess` method lets you know if last task is ended successfully or not. If the task fails, you can get error code using the `getLastErrorCode()` and the error text using `getLastErrorMsg()`.

Highly recommened to explicitly free all resources after work  to avoid any leaks:

```php
$thread->cleanup();
```


#### 2 - Simplified thread creation with closures

You can create threads even easier - from the closures, using the `SimpleThread` class. Such threads are not preforked by default and not multitask too. You can change it via the second argument of `SimpleThread::create`.

Arguments in threads-closures are always mapped as in usual functions.

```php
$result = SimpleThread::create(function($arg) {
	return $arg;
})->run(123)->wait()->getResult();
```

Since *PHP 5.4.0* `$this` can be used in anonymous functions, as in a regular thread ([more info](http://php.net/functions.anonymous)).



#### 3 - Basic information about the thread pool

The thread pool can be created using the `ThreadPool` class.

```php
$pool = new ThreadPool(
	'ExampleThread', // The full thread class name
	8                // Number of threads
);
```

Pool allows efficiently and conveniently distribute tasks among multiple threads and receive the results, events from the threads. In general, it's effective to use the number of threads as the number of processor cores, but to achieve greater efficiencies you can choose it on the specific system experimentally.

Three methods are used for the basic work with a pool: `hasWaiting`, `run`, `wait`.

```php
while ($pool->hasWaiting()) {
	$threadId = $pool->run();
	// ...
}
if ($results = $pool->wait($failed)) {
	foreach ($results as $threadId => $result) {
		// ...
	}
}
if ($failed) {
	foreach ($failed as $threadId => $err) {
		list($errorCode, $errorMessage) = $err;
		// ...
	}
}
```

`hasWaiting` tells if there are free threads in the pool. In the free thread you can start the task using the `run` method. It accepts parameters for the task and returns the ID of the thread that started processing of the task.

Results can be retrieved with the `wait` method. It runs the event loop, waiting for the results and returns an array of successful results. An array of errors from tasks can be received by reference via the first argument of the `wait` method. Each error includes an error code and an explanatory text.

You can identify successful and unsuccessful results by using the thread ID.

Highly recommened to explicitly free all resources after work  to avoid any leaks:

```php
$pool->cleanup();
```

A complete example of using the pool with error handling can be found [among other examples](Examples.md).
