Custom settings
===============

* [↰ back to the documentation contents](0.Index.md)
* [↰ back to the AzaThread overview](../../../../)


---


1. [General information](#1---general-information)
2. [Thread settings](#2---thread-settings)
   * [$multitask](#multitask)
   * [$listenMasterSignals](#listenmastersignals)
   * [$prefork](#prefork)
   * [$preforkWait](#preforkwait)
   * [$argumentsMapping](#argumentsmapping)
   * [$timeoutMasterInitWait](#timeoutmasterinitwait)
   * [$timeoutMasterResultWait](#timeoutmasterresultwait)
   * [$timeoutWorkerJobWait](#timeoutworkerjobwait)
   * [$intervalWorkerMasterChecks](#intervalworkermasterchecks)
3. [Static configuration](#3---static-configuration)
   * [Thread::$ipcDataMode](#threadipcdatamode)
   * [Thread::$useForks](#threaduseforks)



#### 1 - General information

AzaThread flexibly adjusts for any of your tasks. There are two static parameters which affects all the threads and many parameters affecting each individual thread.

The standard way to specify settings - override a class property:

```php
class ExampleThread extends Thread
{
	protected $prefork = false; // Turn off preforking
	function process()
	{
		// ...
	}
}
```

The second variant - is to send an array of settings. This method is intended for closures, but can be used with regular classes.

```php
$thread = SimpleThread::create(function() {
	// ...
}, array(
	'timeoutMasterResultWait' => 15, // Set the timeout for waiting for the result in 15 seconds
));
```

```php
$thread = new ExampleThread(null, null, null, array(
	'timeoutMasterResultWait' => 15, // Set the timeout for waiting for the result in 15 seconds
));
```

Most options are not checked at the processing time, so changing property values ​​after creating the "thread" instance does not make sense.



#### 2 - Thread settings


###### $multitask

Default value -`true`.

Flag. Enables waiting for next tasks in thread. If disabled, then after one task child process dies.

Preforked threads (`$prefork = true`) are always multitask.


###### $listenMasterSignals

Default value -`true`.

Flag. Enables listening for all POSIX signals in parent process. **SIGCHLD** is always listened - it is required for normal functioning.

More information about signals processing in the both parent and child processes can be read in [the relevant part of the documentation](5.Signals.md).


###### $prefork

Default value -`true`.

Flag. Enables pre-forking, to avoid wasting resources later. The process is forked directly at the creation of the instance. This allows more efficient initialization (especially in pools).

Preforked threads are always multitask.


###### $preforkWait

Default value -`false`.

Flag. Enables forced wait for the pre-forking child. This allows you to save one call to `wait` method before running the task, but it takes away all the effectiveness of pre-provisioning. So it is not recommended to use.


###### $argumentsMapping

Default value -`false`.

Flag. Enables mapping of arguments for the `process` method. So you can get arguments as in usual function, not only through the `getParam`/`getParams`:

```php
class ExampleThread extends Thread
{
	protected $argumentsMapping = true;
	function process($arg1, $arg2)
	{
		echo $arg1; // 12
		echo $arg2; // 79
	}
}
$thread = new ExampleThread();
$thread->wait()->run(12, 79);
```

Creates a little performance overhead, so disabled by default.


###### $timeoutMasterInitWait

Default value -`3`.

Timeout. Maximum timeout for master to wait for worker initialization (prefork) (in seconds, can be fractional).

Set to a negative value (`-1`) to disable.


###### $timeoutMasterResultWait

Default value -`5`.

Timeout. Maximum timeout for master to wait for the job results (in seconds, can be fractional).

Set to a negative value (`-1`) to disable.


###### $timeoutWorkerJobWait

Default value -`600`.

Timeout. Maximum timeout for worker to wait for the new job (in seconds, can be fractional). After it spawned child will die.

Set to a negative value (`-1`) to disable.


###### $intervalWorkerMasterChecks

Default value -`5`.

Interval. Interval for worker to check master process (in seconds, can be fractional). If it's not successfull child will die.

Can not be turned off. If incorrect then default value will be used.



#### 3 - Static configuration


###### Thread::$ipcDataMode

Serialization mode for transferring data between processes. By default, the php serialization is used. If [igbinary](http://pecl.php.net/package/igbinary) extension is available, then it is automatically used. Not recommended to change the value manually.


###### Thread::$useForks

Availability flag for the full feature mode. Automatically set to `true`, if all dependencies are available. Если установлено в `` ложной, то «нити» будет использовать синхронный режим совместимости. You can turn it on, if you want to test the functionality in a simplified synchronous mode without forking.
